Now, I'm gonna curl thins down,
it's the exact same thing again,
mystery script from the internet, save it
onto your computer, lets edit it, right?
Fantastic, all right, it's of the exact
same style as the previous one, except for
now we're gonna learn some more commands.
I know your brian's probably feeling okay,
how many of these do we need to learn?
Don't worry, there's just a couple
hundred we'll get through it in a jiff!
All right, anyway, so let's press j
to go all the way down to the bottom.
All the way down to the delete, I mean.
Right here, so we're at our first one.
I'm gonna center it again by using zz,
and to delete a line, just press dd.
Awesome, right?
So, let's do that again.
dd, dd, dd.
Now I actually don't even use
dd To tell you the truth.
I use something a little
different to delete lines.
So press u to undo your last action.
Yeah u for undo,
hopefully this is fairly pneumonic.
It feels pretty easy.
So let's go right back to that,
so what I actually like to do,
is I like to do, shift vd, why?
Cuz I can do it super fast.
I don't know, I just love it,
it feels fantastic.
I like doing that but
you just choose what you want to do, and
what really works with you.
Right, so now we're gonna talk
about yanking, all right?
Yanking is also a term that probably makes
no sense, and if you're from Australia,
I think that's what you call Americans.
I've heard rumors that were
called the yank somewhere,
but either way, or
maybe that's somebody else but
either way yanking simply means
to copy it to a location.
Now a yank is not like copying and
pasting meaning it will not go to your
system clipboard unless if you tell it to.
So I'm gonna go like this yy.
Now notice something,
when I press that first y,
down here in the corner, you can
actually see the motion being started.
So if I were to type something else,
it would actually keep that string
of characters getting longer.
So when I press it again,
I've officially yanked.
Now we're gonna paste it.
So said yanking and
paste below yy, and then p.
p means paste, paste from this
area that we've saved it to.
So when I press p,
notice that it pastes it but
one line down below and
my cursor has moved down below.
So let's do it again to the next one,
press j to go down, and
let's yank it again.
But this time, let's yank it and
press Shift p.
I'm going to play us yy and
then shift p, look at what happened.
I know this doesn't feel that
revolutionary, but trust me, the more you
use vim, the more you're gonna appreciate
the difference between p and capital P.
I pasted it, but the line that I was on,
got shifted downwards.
And what I copied was put
on that line instead.
This is actually incredible I know,
[LAUGH] It doesn't feel incredible, but
I'm just telling you.
This is incredible I know Aah!
Anyway, so just experience it, enjoy it.
Alright, so let's go down to
the next part, visual mode.
I've mentioned it a few times this
is shift and moving around and
being able to highlight, right?
So I'm gonna zz again to put it here.
This line simply just says press v,
so move somewhere into the line and
just press v.
At this point, once you've done that,
you'll notice right away that
down low it says visual.
This means that you're in visual mode.
Now let's press w, Let's press j.
Notice something about it,
it highlights from where you
started to where your cursor is.
So as I move around,
it just keeps highlighting.
Interesting, right?
Alright, so you can press Esc to stop.
Or you can press Ctrl+c or control open
bracket, you can press any of those and
it will take you out of visual mode.
Awesome, so now let's do the next one.
The next one down here says,
let's use visual line mode.
And so visual line mode is slightly
different than visual mode.
Visual line mode allows you to
highlight a whole line at once.
So when I press shift+v,
it will highlight everything by the way,
I'm still using just
simply j to move downward.
So everyone you should be
using j to move downwards.
Notice that when I use j now,
it just highlights the whole line, right?
So now let's combine some things.
Okay, so
now we're gonna get a little bit rowdy.
I hope everyone's feeling ready here.
So let's go down, all right, press zz,
re put ourselves into the middle.
And now let's highlight this line
with shift+v and then press y.
All right, here we go shift+v,
the line is highlighted.
Now I'm gonna press y,
it stopped being highlighted.
Why, what happened?
>> Just this copy, so
that we can then paste.
>> That's right.
You yanked it, so your visual region.
So now let's press p.
Look what happened.
We just yanked that line using capital
V than why we're now combining two
things into one.
This is where you should start seeing,
okay?
There's an expressive nature
to these motions and commands,
that actually you can kind
of combo them together.
It's kind of Mortal Kombat,
just without fighting video games or Gore.
So its effectively the exact same thing.
So let's go down low, let's move
somewhere in the middle of this.
Let's press v,
move forward again with w, and press y.
Now you don't have to select
the exact same region I did, but
just select something.
All right, so I'm gonna like this, y.
So if I press paste now,
what do you think's gonna happen?
Do you think it's gonna
move my content down, and
then put in a new line with that content?
Well, I'd say you're right,
except for you're wrong.
So because I didn't select a full line,
it knows that I'm only selecting
a small non line region.
And so using visual mode causes both
something that's incredible and
really annoying sometimes.
So you kinda have to know how
to use it and what happens.
So there's a little bit of state
you'll have to keep in your head.
But for the most part that happens,
you can press u to undo it, awesome.
All right, so let's do the exact
same thing, let's do with d,
I kinda showed this earlier, you can
shift+v and do d, and it will take it.
Now watch what happens
when I press y though.
It actually just pasted what I deleted.
So in vim when you delete, you also yank.
Now this can be very, very exciting.
Okay, I don't know about you, but
this is where the magic starts happening.
Okay, we're almost there.
We're getting there.
And so that means as you delete,
you can move code instead of having
to be like okay the cop you,
I need to now delete you,
I now need to move you somewhere else.
Now I need to paste you,
instead you just go delete, paste.
So let's do the same thing but
let's press d.
Notice when I use visual mode,
not visual line mode, but visual mode.
I delete that contents within the line.
And then I press p and
p will read paste it back in,
but it pasted back in one thing over.
And this is because of how the cursor
position works and what happened.
So if I were to undo that and
press with capital P,
notice that the line is exactly
back to the way it was.
It actually paste into the correct
position, we deleted it,
we put it back in.
Now, I don't often use visual mode,
visual line mode I use from time to time.
Visual mode is fairly often.
There's only a couple reasons why use it.
All right, so let's talk about the
relationship between yanking and deleting.
So, you at some point in the future
can type in help read but for
now, just as I had been holding ireg for
command register.
when you do that, look at what we see.
You see a lot of things right?
But remember something that at one point,
we did do a lot of deleting right?
We did some deleting of the lines.
I also deleted some other stuff,
I did a vd on that whole highlighted line.
Notice that we have our delete history,
in here for us automatically.
And also notice that the last thing that
I yanked or deleted is always at the top.
So we're gonna get into registers later,
but for now,
I want you to know they exist.
And they automatically keep track of the
things you delete and the things you yank.
Now if I were to,
let's do a little exercise and
kinda see how they change stuff.
So try to keep what you did in your head
or look at my screen and try to keep that
in you head what I've done, and
let's do a couple little exercises, okay?
So press escape, to leave that command,
and let's go down here and
let's yank this line.
So we'll do a yy.
Now, let's relook at the registers :reg.
Notice that only two lines have changed.
The one that starts with a double quotes,
which is up here at the top, so
double quotes double quotes and
the other one double quotes, zero.
Those are the only two that changed.
So let's try something.
Let's do a little bit of playing around.
Let's close this down.
And let's paste this line.
Let's work all the way over to the line,
press I, and
let's just type in something,
just doesn't really matter.
Just type in whatever,
press Esc, Ctrl+C or
Ctrl open bracket to leave it,
and then let's re yy it.
Now, we know that registers
keep track of history, right?
So let's relook at the registers.
Let's see what happened.
Okay, so it changed, but probably not in
the way you were expecting, you're well,
hey, it should have been
keeping track of history.
Why didn't it?
So instead of telling you the answer,
let's explore just a little bit more.
So let's leave this you can use Ctrl+C,
you can use Esc, you can use whatever.
So let's delete this line instead.
Now let's look at the registers.
So I'm gonna press colon, and then you can
just press up to get your last command.
Or you can type in reg to get it also
has a little bit of like fuzzing on it.
So if you just type an r and
then press up,
it can also give you other commands that
you've typed, with the same meaning.
So I'm just gonna do :reg.
Now let's look at it.
Okay, so
we do see that line I just deleted,
but now we see it three times.
And all the other content
got shifted down.
In other words,
yanks will be preserved for
only one register your zeroth register,
whereas deletes will be kept in order in
history all the way down to the ninth one.
We were able to kinda deduce what happened
as opposed to reading the manual,
and I love not reading the manual.
So this is fantastic.
We don't even have to
learn anything by reading.
We just kinda discovered how it works.
This is awesome.
Right?
So how often do I use this stuff?
Virtually never, and
I can show why later, but for
now I don't use the kinda those implicit
movements of the registers ever.
And one fun little fact, when you press p,
what you're actually doing is copying
the contents from the double quotes
register or your implicit register and
putting it into your programme.
So that's kind of what is happening.
All right, so let's leave that, awesome.
Now we're gonna quit,
classic conundrum you press :q, and
it says, my goodness, you can't do that.
So this time,
I'm gonna write quit it because it just
feels right to do that at least once.
All right, so I know this has been for
those that are familiar with him.
This might be a little bit dry, but
you might have just learned
something about registers.
So I'm gonna keep on doing this style of
learning, where I'm gonna keep on calling
into a more complex feature,
and try to bring it in slowly.
So that way, you know it exists.
You may not know what a register is still,
you may have no idea why it's happening,
but you at least know two things.
You can yank and paste,
it you can delete and paste it, and
there is a list of your history somewhere.
You may not know remember
the command perfectly fine.
So let's go to insert.
Now you're probably thinking insert,
it's just I right?
No, there's a lot of ways
to go into insert mode.
And it's quite fantastic.
In fact, this is actually one
of my favorite things about vim,
is how many different ways
you can go into insert mode.
I know, this just a sounding ridic,
as I say it out loud,
I'm I really saying this out loud?
Yes, I am.
I am saying this out loud.
Either way, anyone, any questions, or
is this pretty straight forward still?
>> We were grabbing snippets with
visual not visual line mode.
>> Yeah.
>> And do you know any cool shortcuts to
drop that onto the next line without,
new line, Esc+paste?
>> No.
As of right now I don't, but,
we can make one.
How about this one, when I start
doing remaps, let's do it together.
Sounds good?
Awesome, we'll make something
that makes it work.
Cuz yes, that's actually a really
great point is, I don't like that,
how can I change Vim to operate
the way I want it to be?
I've said this from the beginning,
I'll keep saying it.
Vim is your editor, your way.
It has some defaults, but
there's very few and the default is ugly.
Let's make it pretty for us.
Effectively, I was asked,
if I highlight with v not capital V.
So just going into visual mode, not
visual line mode, and I yank a portion,
is there a way we can make it?
So when I press p,
it doesn't paste in that line, but
instead creates a new line and
then paste the content.
The answer is both yes and no.
We can make them do things we want.
But the default behavior
does not allow for that.
And so we'll get there.
We'll do that here soon.
He is responsible for trying to
remind me to remember to do that.
We'll see if we can work together and
make this happen.
You also sound a little bit more advanced.
So, hopefully this intro
stuff isn't too boring.
Alright, so
let's move on to the next part.
Here we go.